# Video Games Sales
## by Omer Alabas


## Dataset
> 
This dataset was taken from kaggle.com. It contains a list of video games that sold more than 100,000 copies. 
It was generated by a scrape of vgchartz.com. It has more than 16,500 rows in total with each raw represting a game. 
It satisfies all Udacity rules for choosing a personal dataset. This data was last updated in 2017. 
No data wrangling was performed because the data was already tidy and clean. 
But I did split the dataframe into two dataframes later on to investigate the effect of time.


## Summary of Findings
>
1- DS (Nintendo DS) and PS2 have the most games in this dataset.
However this could be misleading since the dataset has records that goes back to 1980!
So it would make sense that older platforms have more supporting games than newer ones.

2- from 1980 to 2007, PS2 is the platform with the most games by far, followed by PS1. 
Looks like Sony was mass producing games in this period of time.

3- from 2007 to 2017, DS is the platform with the most games follwed by PS3 follwed by Wii. 
I did not know that Nintendo produses this huge amount of games!

4- Sony again being first in number of supported games with PS4 having about supported  250 games from 2015 to 2017!

5- The Global sales variable is strongly right skewed.

6- It apears that North America has the most sales. It contributes to almost half of the global sales! 
Europe comes second with 27.3% of the global sales. Finally Japan and other regions come last.

7- Action is the most common game genre according to this dataset. 
This is no surprise since most people love Action games and movies.

8- global sales has many outliers. However we can see clearly that Strategy and Adventure games have low sales compared to other genres.

9- From 2007 to 2017 Shooter games are making more money than other games genre. 
Could this be the effect of games like COD or Fortnite and many other new shooter games?

10- NES (nintendo entertainment system) games sold more than other consoles. 
However, as shown earlier this could be misleading since NES has been for longer time.

11- Again the pattren changed, surprisingly, DES games were not sold at this period of time (2007-2017). 
I know it is old but it made so much money in short amount of time! And with only 98 title of games!

12-  The old generation apears to have higher sales than recent years! There has to be a reason for that. 
My guess is that sincne in recent years the games are more, then maybe many games with low sales are bringing the mean of sales down. 
Also you can see the long range of data in old years meaning that the data is scattared.

13- NA and EU contribute the most to the Global_Sales, this is shown by the strong correlation between them. 
JP_Sales however, have the weakest correlation with the other regions sales, 0.450 and 0.436 with NA and EU respectively. 
On the other hand EU and NA have a stronger correlation between them.

14- PS4 console sold good in the following genres: Racing, Shooter, Platform.

15- DS console  sold good in the following genres: Shooter, Action, Sports


## Key Insights for Presentation
> 
1- DS (Nintendo DS) and PS2 have the most games in this dataset.
However this could be misleading since the dataset has records that goes back to 1980!
So it would make sense that older platforms have more supporting games than newer ones.

2- from 1980 to 2007, PS2 is the platform with the most games by far, followed by PS1. 
Looks like Sony was mass producing games in this period of time.

3- from 2007 to 2017, DS is the platform with the most games follwed by PS3 follwed by Wii. 
I did not know that Nintendo produses this huge amount of games!

4- Action is the most common game genre according to this dataset. This is no surprise since most people love Action games and movies.

5- This is very intresting! According to the graph, the old generation apears to have higher sales than recent years! There has to be a reason for that. 
My guess is that sincne in recent years the games are more, then maybe many games with low sales are bringing the mean of sales down. 
Also you can see the long range of data in old years meaning that the data is scattared.

Note: the design did not change from the exploration step.


